We first exchanged goods, then we used means to exchange goods, like
shells and coins. Today we use money. We transition into a world where
we will present and exchange data to receive goods and services.

The system for accounting provided by Luca Pacioli's, the Double-Entry
System of Accounting is the foundation of our work. We present a modern
way to do double-entry book-keeping for data.

Accounting Data is the process of metering data in a standardized unit
of exchange, and converting it into a form which can be exchanged to
provide data-symmetry between accounts.

The unit of exchange is not measured in numeric value like cash systems.
Data has multi-dimensional value, which means it depends on your
perspective and your relationship to data. This determines how much this
data-set is worth to the individual.

The standard unit of exchange is a hash, representing the state of the
data. A SHA3-512 hash always has 128 characters, regardless of the size
of the data it is representing.

<b>Metering data / anchoring data in space</b> To account data, we can
refer to it using a digital fingerprint, its hash. This allows us to
refer to the data in a consistent form. The hash has captured sufficient
entropy to be unique, so it becomes a unique resource locator. This
ensures that it is always deterministic to what data we relate to.

<b>Accounting data / anchoring data to account</b> The second step is
that the data is attributed to a specific account. This is achieved by
using cryptographic signatures known as public/private key encryption.
The public key acts as a unique account. It is necessary that the
accounts in use are globally unique, so there is no realistic
probability of a name collision between accounts. This ensures that no
data is attributed by mistake to two accounts.

<b>Existence proof / Anchoring data to time </b> The last step to
account for data is the usage of a cryptographic secure clock, so we
know which data was witnessed first. Data can be replicated, so the
value lies within the social implications of the message within the
published data. To attribute the value, the first publisher will be
credited. The most secure witness-networks which provide a service for
cryptographic witnessing of datasets are BTC and Ethereum. The first
known examples of partial data accounting were done by Surety in 1995
and open timestamps in 2012.

<b> Practical accounting </b> The accounting book in the data accounting
age is a 'data vault' which is controlled by one or multiple accounts.
This allows both personal data vaults or organizational data vaults.

A data vault is controlled by a cryptographic wallet. The vault has the
objective to govern the data for the account owner who is associated
with the vault.

The vault provides a capability to export and import data, so it can be
exchanged between data vaults. This allows for collaboration at scale,
and the usage of data as a means of exchange.

<i>Please contribute to this article (fixing bugs and errors) by
exporting it and sending it back with your improvement to
community\[at\]inblock\[dot\]io. Don't forget to sign your revision and
keep it to maximum 2 revisions.</i>

  
  

<hr>
<div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed">
<div style="font-weight:bold;line-height:1.6;">

Data Accounting Signatures

</div>
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

[0xa2026582b94feb9124231fbf7b052c39218954c2](User:0xa2026582b94feb9124231fbf7b052c39218954c2 "wikilink")
([talk](User_talk:0xa2026582b94feb9124231fbf7b052c39218954c2 "wikilink"))
11:55, 30 November 2021 (UTC)  

</div>
